---
layout: post
title:  初识Docker
category: articles
tags: linux-kernel virtualization-platform  SAAS
image:
    feature: head9.jpg
author:
    name:   WuYu
    avatar: bio-photo-alt.jpg
comments: true
share: true
---

昨天有幸受邀参加开源中国成都源创会， 会上第一个议题便是Docker。Docker是
What is Docker?

Docker is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications. Docker is designed to deliver your applications faster. With Docker you can separate your applications from your infrastructure AND treat your infrastructure like a managed application. Docker helps you ship code faster, test faster, deploy faster, and shorten the cycle between writing code and running code.

Docker does this by combining a lightweight container virtualization platform with workflows and tooling that help you manage and deploy your applications.

At its core, Docker provides a way to run almost any application securely isolated in a container. The isolation and security allow you to run many containers simultaneously on your host. The lightweight nature of containers, which run without the extra load of a hypervisor, means you can get more out of your hardware.

Surrounding the container virtualization are tooling and a platform which can help you in several ways:

getting your applications (and supporting components) into Docker containers
distributing and shipping those containers to your teams for further development and testing
deploying those applications to your production environment, whether it be in a local data center or the Cloud.
What can I use Docker for?
Faster delivery of your applications

Docker is perfect for helping you with the development lifecycle. Docker allows your developers to develop on local containers that contain your applications and services. It can then integrate into a continuous integration and deployment workflow.

For example, your developers write code locally and share their development stack via Docker with their colleagues. When they are ready, they push their code and the stack they are developing onto a test environment and execute any required tests. From the testing environment, you can then push the Docker images into production and deploy your code.

Deploying and scaling more easily

Docker's container-based platform allows for highly portable workloads. Docker containers can run on a developer's local host, on physical or virtual machines in a data center, or in the Cloud.

Docker's portability and lightweight nature also make dynamically managing workloads easy. You can use Docker to quickly scale up or tear down applications and services. Docker's speed means that scaling can be near real time.

Achieving higher density and running more workloads

Docker is lightweight and fast. It provides a viable, cost-effective alternative to hypervisor-based virtual machines. This is especially useful in high density environments: for example, building your own Cloud or Platform-as-a-Service. But it is also useful for small and medium deployments where you want to get more out of the resources you have.

What are the major Docker components?
Docker has two major components:

Docker: the open source container virtualization platform.
Docker Hub: our Software-as-a-Service platform for sharing and managing Docker containers.
Note: Docker is licensed under the open source Apache 2.0 license.

What is Docker's architecture?
Docker uses a client-server architecture. The Docker client talks to the Docker daemon, which does the heavy lifting of building, running, and distributing your Docker containers. Both the Docker client and the daemon can run on the same system, or you can connect a Docker client to a remote Docker daemon. The Docker client and daemon communicate via sockets or through a RESTful API.